_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Thank you for visiting my personal website, where I share my academic journey, projects, and interests.

I am Akiyoshi Uchida, a Master’s student in the Space Robotics Lab (SRL) at Tohoku University, Japan.
My research focuses on dynamics modeling, identification, and control of free-floating space robots, with applications to on-orbit servicing.
I completed a 10-month research internship at the SpaceR Laboratory, University of Luxembourg, where I developed a floating platform and conducted both simulation and ground experiments on robotic motion in microgravity environments.
I am particularly interested in advanced control, dynamics, and machine learning approaches for space robotics, aiming to contribute to future on-orbit servicing and debris removal missions.

## Highlights

|Debris capture.|Target tracking.|
| --- | --- |
|![3D direct capturing mujoco gif](images/debris_capture_mpc.gif "arm control by DAR in 3D space")|![3D direct capturing mujoco gif](images/follow.gif "arm control by DAR in 3D space")|

|Flat capture.|Corner capture.|Detumbling.|
| --- | --- | --- |
|![Flat capture gif](images/flat_capture.gif "flat")|![Corner capture gif](images/edge_capture.gif "corner")|![Detumbling gif](images/repeated_detumbling.gif "detumbling")|

## Awards

- **Nov 2025**: Awarded **JSPS DC1** (3-year PhD fellowship).
- **Mar 2025**: Joined [**GP-Mech**](https://pgd.tohoku.ac.jp/english/ijg/program.html) (Graduate Program for Integration of Mechanical Systems).
- **Jun 2024**: Selected as a [**Tobitate! (Leap for Tomorrow) Study Abroad Initiative**](https://tobitate-mext.jasso.go.jp/about/english.html) scholar (16th).
- **Jun 2024**: Received the **Best Orbital Robotics Paper Award at iSpaRo 2024**.

Commit message:

Reorganize awards and fellowships sections for clarity and update recent achievements

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Thank you for visiting my personal website, where I share my academic journey, projects, and interests.

I am Akiyoshi Uchida, a Master’s student in the Space Robotics Lab (SRL) at Tohoku University, Japan.
My research focuses on dynamics modeling, identification, and control of free-floating space robots, with applications to on-orbit servicing.
I completed a 10-month research internship at the SpaceR Laboratory, University of Luxembourg, where I developed a floating platform and conducted both simulation and ground experiments on robotic motion in microgravity environments.
I am particularly interested in advanced control, dynamics, and machine learning approaches for space robotics, aiming to contribute to future on-orbit servicing and debris removal missions.

## Highlights

|Debris capture.|Target tracking.|
| --- | --- |
|![3D direct capturing mujoco gif](images/debris_capture_mpc.gif "arm control by DAR in 3D space")|![3D direct capturing mujoco gif](images/follow.gif "arm control by DAR in 3D space")|

|Flat capture.|Corner capture.|Detumbling.|
| --- | --- | --- |
|![Flat capture gif](images/flat_capture.gif "flat")|![Corner capture gif](images/edge_capture.gif "corner")|![Detumbling gif](images/repeated_detumbling.gif "detumbling")|

## Awards

- **Jun 2024**: Received the **Best Orbital Robotics Paper Award at iSpaRo 2024**.
- **Mar 2024**: [**Hatakeyama Award**](https://www.jsme.or.jp/event_project/award/hatakeyama-award/), The Japan Society of Mechanical Engineers (JSME).

## Fellowships & Scholarships

- **Nov 2025**: JSPS Research Fellowship for Young Scientists (DC1).
- **Jun 2024**: [**Tobitate! (Leap for Tomorrow) Study Abroad Initiative**](https://tobitate-mext.jasso.go.jp/about/english.html), 16th cohort.

## Programs & Appointments

- **Mar 2025**: Selected for [**GP-Mech**](https://pgd.tohoku.ac.jp/english/ijg/program.html) (Graduate Program for Integration of Mechanical Systems).
